I'm going to show you how to take the
skin off and Dec the tomato it's really
simple all you need is a large bowl a
bowl some cold water and a just boiled
kettle full of water so I'm going to
take a tomato and this is quite right
but not too ripe I'm going to just take
the stalk off first and then I've got a
sharp small knife here I'm going to cut
a small cross in the bottom of the
tomato so not the stalk in it's in the
bottom and this is where the skin is
they're going to start to peel away from
that it goes into the bulb and we're
going to submerge it with just boiled
water there we go I'm going to leave it
in there for about 10 seconds to start
with and we'll see how it's going I'm
just going to turn it upside down so I
can see what's happening with that skin
when it's ready to go
you'll see the skin start to peel back
and this is a great little trick to know
when you want to make a smarter recipe
that uses something you may have heard
called tomato concassé it's just small
chopped up pieces of tomato or even just
don't really like eating tomato skin and
seeds okay so this one's been in for
about 15 seconds I'm going to fish it
out and I'm going to put into the cold
water so it's pretty hot to handle now
you can see that the skin on the bottom
here it's nice and loose and also at the
top my skin seems to split at the top
that's absolutely fine if that happens
to you as well makes it easier to peel
the skin away so just pop your
fingernail under the edge of the skin
and move it in this larger pieces as you
can
there we go so there's my tomato
completely without skin now we're going
to take the seeds out
so knife again and we're going to cut
straight through the center of the
tomato and I'm going to cut it into
quarters then you can use a teaspoon to
do this or you can use a small knife cut
through the flesh at the top and pull
out the seeds just scoop the remainder
out of here
or I'll show you with a teaspoon you can
simply pull the center away like that
once you're taking the seeds out if you
like you can chop these into small cubes
so press this in my toe down on the
surface
I'm taking your knife cut along one way
and then across the other into small
squares but beautifully chopped tomatoes
and that is how to simply take the skin
and seeds away from a tomato